# Consideration of Personal Data Privacy and Utilization between Company and Consumer
In this document, I discuss two articles about the issue of data privacy in relation to data collection and utilization made by companies with the consumers in today's business. Since business companies rely on datasets to analyze business objectives in the current market, I present and discuss two different viewpoints on this contemporary concern. 

## Article 1
In CBC’s [Home Depot didn't get customer consent before sharing data with Facebook's owner, privacy watchdog finds](https://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/home-depot-privacy-commissioner-meta-1.6726668), the article talks about the customers’ data privacy sharing problem between Homo Depot and Meta without formal consent, discovered by the Canadian privacy watchdog. They privately collected the electronic receipts from the customers, which included lots of email address and purchase history, and shared them to the Meta for their own business analytic and advertising purposes. Although the company said they use e-receipt that rely on the implied consent and privacy statement, the privacy commissioner and the customers respond that this is a serious issue that highly sensitive personal information is implicated behind and collecting vast datasets of individual activities is socially dangerous.

Data Privacy and collection have been serious and controversial problems for the companies and users. There are lots of cases like this news that discuss the firms secretly collecting data and analyzing personal privacy for their intentional uses of business. The consumers of the companies unconsciously reveal their sensitive information even though they are aware of the danger of data privacy. They might consent or reject the privacy statement, but it doesn’t seem much difference as they are being forced to consent and tracked in silence if they would like to use the products. And it’s true that any type of personal data might indicate significantly private information which the users don’t want to share. I think that the companies should be more responsible for data privacy and use of information, and be careful with the acceptability of consumers sharing their individual data. They should not take advantage of our privacy risk for their profits. As a user, the collected data analysis could be beneficial for our consumer experience to be more personalized and pleasing. But sometimes such consent doesn’t inform much about the deep implication of data brought to individual privacy, and we don’t want our information being shared. We would definitely worry about our privacy being disclosed and utilized secretly by others, especially when we don’t know the intentions of companies are good or bad.

## Article 2
In Forbes’s [Exploring Privacy As A Competitive Advantage](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2022/09/23/exploring-privacy-as-a-competitive-advantage/?sh=67444cfd47a1), the article discusses the use of data privacy as a competitive advantage for companies to create a form of trust with consumers, improving the reliability of companies dealing with personal data issues. While the vast collection of consumer data helps companies make better business strategies, continuously accessing private data might lead to an opposite influence on the relationship with consumers. Thus the author suggests that the companies should be transparent about how they collect and use consumer’s personal data for processing their analysis. And the companies should be more concerned about the data protection to prevent consumer’s data being leaked. This would make consumers more aware of how their data is being developed by the companies, and lead to a better way of conducting business with the datasets.

Most of the companies rely on datasets to promote their development nowadays, since we’re living in a period of information and data. The more data they collect and acquire, they could analyze or predict their business structure more precisely. This helps the company understand deeper about their consumer and provide appropriate services to improve their experience. For example, social media platforms analyze our searching or liked data to generate targeted ads, posts and short videos in potentials. It creates an idea of customization for consumers as an outstanding marketing strategy. However, I believe that most of the consumers are not willing to share their privacy on these platforms although they provide consent statements in detail. We value our personal information, but also desire better experience. Thus I think being transparent on uses of data privacy could be beneficial for both companies and consumers. The consumers would feel more secure when the companies are clear about how they analyze their data and what’s the purpose of using it. Consumers generate a sense of trust with the companies and become more acceptable to contribute their information as professional analysis. They are well aware of the kinds of data being processed and feel more confident. Thus it could be a developable way for companies to benefit under the controversy of user data, retaining the integrity without offending the bottom line. Still, if the consumers feel not comfortable in accessing their private information, it’s certain that the companies shouldn’t force or privately collect their data to use. We don’t want to find out that our data is being shared after we refuse the statement, this should provide more policy restrictions. And we might feel offended or being monitored when the platforms keep utilizing our data to perform their needs.